README.md, before:

# NusaHub : A Web3 Crowdfunding Platform Connecting Indonesian Game Developers With Global Investors Through Milestone-Based Funding and Anti-Fraud Voting. 🚀

## ✨ Overview

🌏 NusaHub is a Web3 crowdfunding platform 🚀 that connects Indonesian game developers 🎮 with global investors 🌍 through milestone-based funding and anti-fraud investor voting ✅. Developers raise funds per milestone, investors review and vote to release payments 💰, ensuring honest and transparent progress 📊. With blockchain-powered security 🔗 and global access 🌐, NusaHub bridges local game innovation 🇮🇩 with the trust and scalability of Web3 🧠.

## 🔒 Built with OpenZeppelin Contracts

The smart contracts in this project are built using the [OpenZeppelin Contracts](https://docs.openzeppelin.com/contracts/5.x/) library to ensure security, modularity, and upgradability.

| 🔧 Purpose                      | 📦 OpenZeppelin Module                                                                                                                                          | 📄 Description                                                                           |
| ------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 🪙 Fungible Token (NUSA)        | `ERC20Upgradeable`, `ERC20VotesUpgradeable`, `ERC20PermitUpgradeable`                                                                                           | Fungible token with support for on-chain voting and off-chain approvals (via signatures) |
| 🪙 Fungible Token (IDRX & USDT) | `ERC20`                                                                                                                                                         | Standard ERC20 tokens for IDRX and USDT                                                  |
| 🗳️ DAO Governance (NusaGovernor)             | `GovernorUpgradeable`, `GovernorSettingsUpgradeable`, `GovernorCountingSimpleUpgradeable`, `GovernorVotesUpgradeable`, `GovernorVotesQuorumFractionUpgradeable` | Complete DAO module for proposals, voting, and secured execution            |
| ⏳ Upgradable & Initialization   | `Initializable`, `UUPSUpgradeable`                                                                                                                              | Allows contract upgradeability using the UUPS proxy pattern and proper initialization    |
| 🛡️ Security                    | `ReentrancyGuardUpgradeable`                                                                                                                                    | Protects critical functions from reentrancy attacks                                      |


## 🧩 Architecture

```
├── smart-contract/
│   ├── lib/                # External dependencies or installed libraries (via forge install)
│   ├── out/                # Build artifacts generated by Foundry after compilation
│   ├── script/             # Deployment and automation scripts using Forge
│   ├── src/                # Main smart contract source files
│   │   ├── core/           # Core logic and main contract implementations
│   │   ├── enums/          # Enum type definitions used across contracts
│   │   ├── errors/         # Custom error definitions for gas-efficient reverts
│   │   ├── events/         # Event declarations for logging on-chain actions
│   │   ├── libraries/      # Reusable utility libraries for contracts
│   │   ├── structs/        # Struct data definitions shared between contracts
│   │   └── tokens/         # Token-related contract logic (e.g., ERC standards)
│   ├── test/               # Smart contract test files
│   ├── .env                # Environment variables (RPC URL, private key, etc.)
│   ├── .gitignore          # Git ignore rules for temporary and build files
│   ├── .gitmodules         # Tracks git submodules (external contract sources)
│   ├── foundry.toml        # Foundry configuration (compiler, optimizer, remappings)
│   ├── Makefile            # Build, test, and deployment automation commands
│   └── README.md           # Project documentation and setup guide

```

## 🧭 How to Run

This project uses [Foundry](https://book.getfoundry.sh/) and a custom `Makefile` for a smoother development experience.  
Just run `make <task>` without remembering long commands!

### 📦 1. Install Foundry

If you haven’t installed Foundry yet:

```bash
curl -L https://foundry.paradigm.xyz | bash
foundryup
```

### 📁 2. Clone Repository

```bash
> git clone https://github.com/NusaQuest/smart-contract
> cd smart-contract
```

### 🔨 3. Compile Contracts

```bash
> make build
```

### 🧪 4. Run Test

```bash
> make test
```

### 🎯 5. Deploy and Verify Contracts

```bash
> make deploy
```

## 🔐 .env Configuration

Before running deploy or verification commands, make sure your `.env` file is properly set up in the root directory.

```env
# 🔑 Private key of your deployer wallet (NEVER share this)
PRIVATE_KEY=your_private_key_here

# 🌐 RPC URL of the Sepolia network via Alchemy
ALCHEMY_URL=https://eth-sepolia.g.alchemy.com/v2/your_alchemy_url

# 🛠️ Etherscan API key for contract verification
ETHERSCAN_API_KEY=your_etherscan_api_key_here
```

## 🤝 Contributors

- 🧑 Yobel Nathaniel Filipus :
  - 🐙 Github : [View Profile](https://github.com/yebology)
  - 💼 Linkedin : [View Profile](https://linkedin.com/in/yobelnathanielfilipus)
  - 📧 Email : [yobelnathaniel12@gmail.com](mailto:yobelnathaniel12@gmail.com)

Commit message:

Enhance README with contract details table
Added a table summarizing contracts and their descriptions.

README.md, after:

# NusaHub : A Web3 Crowdfunding Platform Connecting Indonesian Game Developers With Global Investors Through Milestone-Based Funding and Anti-Fraud Voting. 🚀

## ✨ Overview

🌏 NusaHub is a Web3 crowdfunding platform 🚀 that connects Indonesian game developers 🎮 with global investors 🌍 through milestone-based funding and anti-fraud investor voting ✅. Developers raise funds per milestone, investors review and vote to release payments 💰, ensuring honest and transparent progress 📊. With blockchain-powered security 🔗 and global access 🌐, NusaHub bridges local game innovation 🇮🇩 with the trust and scalability of Web3 🧠.

| Contract         | Description                                                                                       | Blockscout Link                                                                                             |
| ---------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| NusaHub**      | The main contract that handles project listings, investor funding, and profit distribution.       | [View on Blockscout](https://eth-sepolia.blockscout.com/address/0x70eCA90204067293810b64016A76Bcd8B0De5E81) |
| NusaGovernor | Governance module used for proposing project milestone progress and voting by investors.          | [View on Blockscout](https://eth-sepolia.blockscout.com/address/0x597Bdc34A6746C222E63d3bF76d8a13DE57c5741) |
| NUSA Token   | Represents the amount of funds invested by investors — not used as an incentive or utility token. | [View on Blockscout](https://eth-sepolia.blockscout.com/address/0x5Bb464e581a5c75d784CeaDe999e1d7f7f090eA8) |
| IDRX (Mock)  | Mock stablecoin pegged to Indonesian Rupiah, used for transaction simulation and testing.         | [View on Blockscout](https://eth-sepolia.blockscout.com/address/0xA97b33227009afB75dcE7023e69FEEeDE42De6a1) |
| USDT (Mock)  | Mock USD-pegged stablecoin for testing cross-stablecoin interactions in a simulated environment.  | [View on Blockscout](https://eth-sepolia.blockscout.com/address/0xFC87e203Fe83dCa11ee36B390fbFae6296A3c864) |

## 🔒 Built with OpenZeppelin Contracts

The smart contracts in this project are built using the [OpenZeppelin Contracts](https://docs.openzeppelin.com/contracts/5.x/) library to ensure security, modularity, and upgradability.

| 🔧 Purpose                      | 📦 OpenZeppelin Module                                                                                                                                          | 📄 Description                                                                           |
| ------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 🪙 Fungible Token (NUSA)        | `ERC20Upgradeable`, `ERC20VotesUpgradeable`, `ERC20PermitUpgradeable`                                                                                           | Fungible token with support for on-chain voting and off-chain approvals (via signatures) |
| 🪙 Fungible Token (IDRX & USDT) | `ERC20`                                                                                                                                                         | Standard ERC20 tokens for IDRX and USDT                                                  |
| 🗳️ DAO Governance (NusaGovernor)             | `GovernorUpgradeable`, `GovernorSettingsUpgradeable`, `GovernorCountingSimpleUpgradeable`, `GovernorVotesUpgradeable`, `GovernorVotesQuorumFractionUpgradeable` | Complete DAO module for proposals, voting, and secured execution            |
| ⏳ Upgradable & Initialization   | `Initializable`, `UUPSUpgradeable`                                                                                                                              | Allows contract upgradeability using the UUPS proxy pattern and proper initialization    |
| 🛡️ Security                    | `ReentrancyGuardUpgradeable`                                                                                                                                    | Protects critical functions from reentrancy attacks                                      |


## 🧩 Architecture

```
├── smart-contract/
│   ├── lib/                # External dependencies or installed libraries (via forge install)
│   ├── out/                # Build artifacts generated by Foundry after compilation
│   ├── script/             # Deployment and automation scripts using Forge
│   ├── src/                # Main smart contract source files
│   │   ├── core/           # Core logic and main contract implementations
│   │   ├── enums/          # Enum type definitions used across contracts
│   │   ├── errors/         # Custom error definitions for gas-efficient reverts
│   │   ├── events/         # Event declarations for logging on-chain actions
│   │   ├── libraries/      # Reusable utility libraries for contracts
│   │   ├── structs/        # Struct data definitions shared between contracts
│   │   └── tokens/         # Token-related contract logic (e.g., ERC standards)
│   ├── test/               # Smart contract test files
│   ├── .env                # Environment variables (RPC URL, private key, etc.)
│   ├── .gitignore          # Git ignore rules for temporary and build files
│   ├── .gitmodules         # Tracks git submodules (external contract sources)
│   ├── foundry.toml        # Foundry configuration (compiler, optimizer, remappings)
│   ├── Makefile            # Build, test, and deployment automation commands
│   └── README.md           # Project documentation and setup guide

```

## 🧭 How to Run

This project uses [Foundry](https://book.getfoundry.sh/) and a custom `Makefile` for a smoother development experience.  
Just run `make <task>` without remembering long commands!

### 📦 1. Install Foundry

If you haven’t installed Foundry yet:

```bash
curl -L https://foundry.paradigm.xyz | bash
foundryup
```

### 📁 2. Clone Repository

```bash
> git clone https://github.com/NusaQuest/smart-contract
> cd smart-contract
```

### 🔨 3. Compile Contracts

```bash
> make build
```

### 🧪 4. Run Test

```bash
> make test
```

### 🎯 5. Deploy and Verify Contracts

```bash
> make deploy
```

## 🔐 .env Configuration

Before running deploy or verification commands, make sure your `.env` file is properly set up in the root directory.

```env
# 🔑 Private key of your deployer wallet (NEVER share this)
PRIVATE_KEY=your_private_key_here

# 🌐 RPC URL of the Sepolia network via Alchemy
ALCHEMY_URL=https://eth-sepolia.g.alchemy.com/v2/your_alchemy_url

# 🛠️ Etherscan API key for contract verification
ETHERSCAN_API_KEY=your_etherscan_api_key_here
```

## 🤝 Contributors

- 🧑 Yobel Nathaniel Filipus :
  - 🐙 Github : [View Profile](https://github.com/yebology)
  - 💼 Linkedin : [View Profile](https://linkedin.com/in/yobelnathanielfilipus)
  - 📧 Email : [yobelnathaniel12@gmail.com](mailto:yobelnathaniel12@gmail.com)
